.. _installation_page:

============
Installation
============

Windows
-------

* Download and install `Atom <https://atom.io/>`_ (Python editor)
* Download and install `Anaconda <https://www.continuum.io/downloads>`_
* Download and install `Github desktop <https://github-windows.s3.amazonaws.com/GitHubSetup.exe>`_

In CINPLA on windows, we recommend to make a folder ``c:\apps\`` where you put all expipe related software.

General
-------

1. Install the expipe dev package found at
https://github.com/CINPLA/expipe-dev, clone with your favorite git software.
On the command line write::

  $ git clone https://github.com/CINPLA/expipe-dev.git

Due to dependency issues we have to make two separate environments, one for
phy and one for expipe with browsers. These environments will hopefully
be possible to merge in the near future. In short, install an expipe environment with browsers, and a phy environment
for spikesorting.  

Windows: open anaconda prompt from start menu. ``cd c:\apps\expipe-dev`` 
Note: you may not use [Ctrl]+V to paste into anaconda, push both mouse buttons at the same time.
Remember that you can not copy paste everything in to the command line - copy paste and press enter on one by one line::

  conda env create -f expipe-environment.yml
  activate expipe
  python setup.py develop --extra browser
  conda env create -f phy-environment.yml
  activate phy
  python setup.py develop --extra phy

Configuring expipe
------------------

Now that you have the environments installed you need to configure expipe.  
Windows: From Anaconda prompt you have to make the folder ``c:/users/uiousername/.config/expipe``::

   cd c:/users/uiousername
   mkdir .config

Now you can use whatever program you want make the expipe folder and copy the configuration files.
In ``c:\apps\expipe-dev\expipe-plugin-cinpla\utils`` you will find example configuration files.
Start by copying all files to ``c:/users/uiousername/.config/expipe``.

Start Atom.
Open file ``config.yaml`` and edit according to your user information.
Remove processing if you do not know what it is for.

.. code-block:: yaml

  data_path: c:/users/uiousername/expipe_temp_storage
  processing:
    data_path: /home/user/expipe_temp_storage
    username: <processing server username>
    hostname: user@ipaddress
  nird:
    data_path: /projects/NS9048K/NORSTORE_OSL_DISK/NS9048K/server
    username: <norstore username>
    hostname: login.nird.sigma2.no
  firebase:
    email: your@email.com
    password: yourpassword
    config:
      apiKey: AIzaSyAjGqZwiCKS2333m820e9UdZ7jbnkfEpjw
      authDomain: expipe-26506.firebaseapp.com
      databaseURL: https://expipe-26506.firebaseio.com
      storageBucket: expipe-26506.appspot.com

Here we have defined two servers, one for `norstore` and one for a `processing`
server e.g. your office computer; see [usage](address to usage).
Note that you can add arbitrary names for servers.

Following the instructions you should be be able to::

  expipe --help
